Is it ever okay to violate core values to achieve a goal?
Okay.
So first of all,
really obvious your values and your goals should be aligned.
They should not be adversarial,
they shouldn't be counter to each other.
And if you think about what your goals are,
your goals should be set up in a way that they support your values and vice
versa.
That's just the way it is.
So I'm not sure where this is going to be an issue.
If you're setting up goals that are contrary to your values,
you've got some issues.
Now,
I guess if you had the goal of winning the Blue Blue Belt Jujitsu championships,
and in order to win you,
you cheated.
Like you claimed someone was reaping your leg and use it.
Oh,
you tap and you get the guide to qualified and you win.
That's,
it could be an example right now,
do I support that?
No.
You know that's wrong.
You,
you go win against the values of actually the values of martial arts to do that.
So you didn't win anything and you didn't achieve your goal because you weren't
actually the best.
Right?
So I say no on that one.
Uh,
another one,
let's say you wanted to make a certain level of profit at your company,
so you cheated a little bit on the quality of the manufacturing and you sold
items that weren't quite reliable.
Do I support that?
No.
Right.
For annual.
And why?
Let me tell you why.
Because your goal,
your goal is not even aligned with your goal itself.
Because when you start making substandard manufactured items,
what's going to happen in the long run?
People are gonna say,
we don't like these.
Yeah,
we're not going to buy him anymore.
So you didn't win.
You might've wanted the short term,
but you didn't win in.
And again,
you're going against your value of,
you should have values that you don't want to.
Hmm.
You know,
take profit over making good product.
And again,
in the long run,
that value is going to cost you.
Right.
People aren't going to want to buy your product anymore.
Okay.
Another one I could think of,
like let's say your goal was to lose weight or to gain weight or whatever,
some kind of positive physical change answer.
You're working hard,
but then you decide you're going to jump on the steroids,
right?
You're going to jump on steroids and you get that goal,
Because steroids are a huge advantage.
But again,
I say no because if you think about what your goal is,
like why are you trying to gain weight or lose weight?
Your goal is to be,
is to be healthy,
right?
That's your value is you value your health.
And so when the minute you start doing something that's countered your health,
well that's not,
that's not helping your longterm.
It's your value is not aligned with your goal and your goal is not aligned with
your values.
So get them lined up.
Mm.
So now might we at some point compromise our values,
compromise our values to reach a goal?
I think that changes the answer a little bit,
right?
We might compromise.
You remember that question that we had about the people that are snakes and how
do you work with them?
You know,
should you work with someone that's dishonest or backstabbing,
but there are a cog in the machine of your team and your values,
right?
They might beat a call a person out and say,
hey,
you're a,
you're a backstabber and I don't want to work with you that that might be what
your values tell you to do,
but your goal,
the end,
if you do that,
first of all,
you don't progress.
You don't,
your team doesn't work better together.
They work worse together.
And so in the long run you don't win because you stuck hardcore with your
values.
And by the way,
if you stick with your,
if you,
if you bend your values,
you compromise your values a little bit to get through this transitional period.
Now you get promoted,
now you get a situation where you can fire that person.
That's a backstabber.
So you,
you have to compromise your values as a person a little bit.
And you know there's the enemy of my enemy is my friend,
right?
The enemy of my enemy is my friend.
So you might compromise your values short term working somebody that you're not
totally aligned with value wise.
And again,
if you're going to get the long term strategic goal,
well then maybe it's worth it because I'm going to put you in a position where
you can then hold your values better.
He,
from a,
from a senior position or from a more powerful position,
so you might compromise them a little bit.
Again,
these are small compromises and you should have things,
of course,
we got things that values that you're,
you never gonna compromise on,
right?
I'm hitting a girl.
Yeah.
Right.
You should,
you should never hit a girl,
right.
Never hit a woman
now.
But that being said,
if there's a woman that's about to do something truly evil,
you know,
kill a child or some kind of a terrorist act,
and the only thing you have that you can stop it is to hit her.
Well,
guess what?
She's getting hit.
You know what I mean?
So even then,
your value of never hitting a girl can be compromised momentarily while you stop
a child from being murdered or whatever.
Yeah.
Um,
do you know,
we,
as we hold a value,
we always want to tell the truth.
Hmm.
But if you had a,
for an extreme example,
if you had some kind of a state secret and,
and you've got captured won't of course you might lie about that and there's
little,
I mean we could get into a whole like a white lie discussion on stuff like when
your wife asks you how's the chicken and you want to tell her it's the most dry
and
charcoal tasting item that you've ever put in your mouth,
that's not going to help you with long term.
No.
So I might,
I might compromise my values of being truthful and tell her it's pretty good.
Can I have some more ketchup over here?
Can I get some more barbecue sauce on this ketchup on chicken and I'm going to
go grab some more water.
Would you like to say?
So I might compromise my values a little bit there.
Uh,
so
I guess what I'm saying is,
and people,
this is the thing,
people probably what they think of my persona because people will think,
oh,
I'm just going to be this on compromising never Sentilo Lao,
no slack kind of person.
Right?
That's what people want it want,
you know,
want I guess want to see me as,
but the reality is reason,
right?
Reason and thought can,
can override values for the right reasons.
And that's why we can think that's why we can take,
and there's,
there's actually times,
there's actually times when holding your values goes against your values.
So if yours back up your friends,
right?
You always backup your friends,
but then your friend does something that's totally immoral and is against your
values.
Well then you can't back up.
You can't hold the value of backing up your friends because guess what?
They did something immoral.
They did something that was wrong.
And so if you held your values,
you'd be not holding your values.
That's the dichotomy there,
right?
That's the dichotomy that,
and the additional dichotomy is you hold your values,
right?
You hold to those basic principles that you believe in.
But at the same time you've got to apply logic and reason to them to make sure
that they are supporting your longterm goal and your longterm values.
Cause you don't wanna,
you don't want to make a hard stand on something that costs you everything.
We're now in the future.
You can no longer manipulate anymore situations.
That's one of the things that makes leadership a handle and life hard is that it
isn't black and white.
It isn't black and white.
It's gray.
And so our decisions on these very things,
these are the challenges of leadership
and there's,
there's no way right or wrong answer of,
of saying if it's right or wrong,
to violate your,
your values to achieve a goal that our initial questions,
there's too many variables in that.
There's too many variables.
But start with this part that I started the whole answer with.
Align your values with your goal.
That's where you start.
And then you use reason
and logic and fought to determine your actions based on the situation weighed
against your values.
You have to think,
yeah.
So given what you're saying,
yes,
it's still,
it's less like just values.
Like you have a dinner
plate with here's my values kind of thing.
It's more of a hierarchy of values.
So you will violate your values.
If it's on,
you know,
level two for a level four.
You know what I mean?
Like I'll hit all knock a girl right out.
If it's in the way of my higher value,
which is protect your family,
protect my family,
kids,
you know,
all this stuff.
Same thing with
girls.
Don't mess ladies out there.
Don't mess with that.
Goes family.
Please don't come at you.
You know,
obviously same thing with the,
you know,
the um,
reading on your phone or backing up your friend.
You know,
my values back into my friend.
That's level two.
You know,
the whole air moral thing,
assaulting a girl,
I don't know,
whatever that,
you know,
that's level four.
So sorry,
number two,
you know,
I'm going for number four kind of.
So it's like a higher,
yeah,
you got a little hierarchy,
values and now there's some,
you know,
obviously there's some that I can't eat.
You know,
you could give any of one of your highest values that you could come up with and
you could sit here and,
and theoretically come up with a situation where you would sacrifice that value.
And that's fire is getting.
So that's why we're humans.
We have the ability to think,
we have the ability to reason and sometimes you might have to compromise your
values a little bit to do,
we'll survive,
right?
Yeah.
To survive and get so that you can longterm
carry out your values to a higher degree.
Yeah.
Like the um,
and the d back to the,
uh,
people want to lose weight,
you know,
if usually people who,
I don't know,
I guess I would imagine that usually people who take steroids,
their value isn't the health.
It's like,
because people don't typically,
unless it's a medical thing,
you know,
um,
the staring thing for ally,
it's for to win or to be cool.
Yeah.
Which is kind of strange,
but you know,
it's usually to win a competition or something like this.
But,
um,
but nonetheless,
I think that holds true given what you said.
And I think it's kind of kind of coming together there.
I think that it is like a hierarchy.
Yeah.
And if someone's going to use steroids to cheat,
that's,
I mean,
even that we could,
it's a whole nother discussion,
but what do they really proving?
What are they really winning?
Right.
Yeah.
And that goes back to remember,
uh,
I forget what we were talking about.
Like some people,
like they want to,
they want to,
they want to appear to win.
You know,
especially now you can see it on like online that you don't spend that much time
at Lake just cruising Facebook.
But you see,
you can see someone that,
you know,
I don't know.
They're there.
They're about to murder each other.
Husband and wife,
they hate each other.
They don't even sleep in the same room,
but they went on vacation with their kids or whatever,
and they're like,
oh,
so in love in front of the Ferris wheel or the waterfall or whatever.
And you're like,
Bro,
you just want people to think you when you just want to appear that you won.
You know?
But it's not real.
That's why people cheat.
Yeah.
That's why I liked the guy that you did to thing when they're like,
okay,
I'm gonna.
I'm gonna say,
this guy read my leg on a tab.
Oh,
he's DQT can't do that.
But you know,
you eat it kind of thing.
He,
his goal wasn't to win.
It was just to get the metal.
So it's,
you know,
getting the metal is appear,
but he's just,
he doesn't have the proper values actually be the winner.
He needs to check his values.
He needs to check.
His hierarchy of values is what are you do.